codealpha web scraping task/README.md, before:

# CodeAlpha Task 1 – Web Scraping

**CodeAlpha Data Analytics Internship**

---

## 📌 Project Overview
This project is completed as part of the **CodeAlpha Data Analytics Internship**.  
The objective of this task is to perform **web scraping** using Python to extract structured data from a public website and store it for further analysis.

---

## 🌐 Website Scraped
https://realpython.github.io/fake-jobs/

This is a publicly available website designed for practicing web scraping techniques.

---

## 📊 Data Extracted
The following information was collected from the website:
- Job Title
- Company Name
- Location
- Job Description

---

## 🧰 Tools & Technologies Used
- Python
- Requests
- BeautifulSoup (bs4)
- Pandas
- Jupyter Notebook

---

## ⚙️ Workflow
1. Sent an HTTP request to fetch the webpage
2. Parsed HTML content using BeautifulSoup
3. Identified and extracted relevant job details
4. Stored extracted data in a Python list
5. Converted the data into a Pandas DataFrame
6. Exported the data to a CSV file

---

## 📁 Project Structure
Task1_WebScraping/
│
├── web_scraping.ipynb
├── web_scraping.py
├── job_listings.csv
├── README.md
└── screenshots/
├── code_execution.png
├── successful_execution.png
├── csv_file_created.png
└── csv_output.png

--- 

## ✅ Output
A CSV file named **`job_listings.csv`** containing all extracted job listings in a structured format.

---

## 📸 Screenshots

### 🔹 Code Execution in Jupyter Notebook
![Code Execution] <img width="1313" height="880" alt="Screenshot (386)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e36b4d08-211b-42e8-a35d-7c8df829f388" />

---

### 🔹 Successful Execution Message
![Successful Execution](<img width="1229" height="659" alt="Screenshot (374)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f3323cfc-aea6-4373-9946-973658db857d" />

---

### 🔹 CSV File Created
![CSV File Created] <img width="1322" height="883" alt="Screenshot (384)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3508f301-e6de-42a7-a131-d817db428944" />

---

### 🔹 CSV Output Preview
![CSV Output] <img width="1212" height="937" alt="Screenshot (385)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9ddd1159-325b-4aef-9391-6e0282e45798" />

---

## ▶️ How to Run the Project
1. Install required libraries:
   ```bash
   pip install requests beautifulsoup4 pandas
2. Run the script :
   ```bash
   python web_scraping.py
  or  open and run the notebook
    ```bash

     jupyter notebook
---

##👤 Author
Sri Vaishnavi Vedantam
CodeAlpha Data Analytics Intern

```yaml

---

## 📌 VERY IMPORTANT (Do This to Avoid Spacing Issues)

### ✅ Before Committing:
- ❌ No empty line before `# CodeAlpha Task 1 – Web Scraping`
- ❌ No spaces before headings
- ✅ Screenshots folder name must be exactly `screenshots`

---

## ✅ How This Will Look on GitHub
✔ No big gap at top  
✔ Headings aligned properly  
✔ Screenshots displayed correctly  
✔ Clean & professional  

This is **exactly what evaluators want** 💯

---

## 🚀 Next (Optional Help)
I can:
- Review **Task 2 / Task 3 README**
- Fix **any Markdown file**
- Write **main repository README**
- Help with **LinkedIn post & video script**

Just tell me 😊

Commit message:

Add license section to README
Added license section to README for clarity.

codealpha web scraping task/README.md, after:

# CodeAlpha Task 1 – Web Scraping

**CodeAlpha Data Analytics Internship**

---

## 📌 Project Overview
This project is completed as part of the **CodeAlpha Data Analytics Internship**.  
The objective of this task is to perform **web scraping** using Python to extract structured data from a public website and store it for further analysis.

---

## 🌐 Website Scraped
https://realpython.github.io/fake-jobs/

This is a publicly available website designed for practicing web scraping techniques.

---

## 📊 Data Extracted
The following information was collected from the website:
- Job Title
- Company Name
- Location
- Job Description

---

## 🧰 Tools & Technologies Used
- Python
- Requests
- BeautifulSoup (bs4)
- Pandas
- Jupyter Notebook

---

## ⚙️ Workflow
1. Sent an HTTP request to fetch the webpage
2. Parsed HTML content using BeautifulSoup
3. Identified and extracted relevant job details
4. Stored extracted data in a Python list
5. Converted the data into a Pandas DataFrame
6. Exported the data to a CSV file

---

## 📁 Project Structure
Task1_WebScraping/
│
├── web_scraping.ipynb
├── web_scraping.py
├── job_listings.csv
├── README.md
└── screenshots/
├── code_execution.png
├── successful_execution.png
├── csv_file_created.png
└── csv_output.png

--- 

## ✅ Output
A CSV file named **`job_listings.csv`** containing all extracted job listings in a structured format.

---

## 📸 Screenshots

### 🔹 Code Execution in Jupyter Notebook
![Code Execution] <img width="1313" height="880" alt="Screenshot (386)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e36b4d08-211b-42e8-a35d-7c8df829f388" />

---

### 🔹 Successful Execution Message
![Successful Execution](<img width="1229" height="659" alt="Screenshot (374)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f3323cfc-aea6-4373-9946-973658db857d" />

---

### 🔹 CSV File Created
![CSV File Created] <img width="1322" height="883" alt="Screenshot (384)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3508f301-e6de-42a7-a131-d817db428944" />

---

### 🔹 CSV Output Preview
![CSV Output] <img width="1212" height="937" alt="Screenshot (385)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9ddd1159-325b-4aef-9391-6e0282e45798" />

---

## ▶️ How to Run the Project
1. Install required libraries:
   ```bash
   pip install requests beautifulsoup4 pandas
2. Run the script :
   ```bash
   python web_scraping.py
  or  open and run the notebook
    ```bash

     jupyter notebook
---

##👤 Author
Sri Vaishnavi Vedantam
CodeAlpha Data Analytics Intern

```yaml

---

## 📌 VERY IMPORTANT (Do This to Avoid Spacing Issues)

### ✅ Before Committing:
- ❌ No empty line before `# CodeAlpha Task 1 – Web Scraping`
- ❌ No spaces before headings
- ✅ Screenshots folder name must be exactly `screenshots`

---

## ✅ How This Will Look on GitHub
✔ No big gap at top  
✔ Headings aligned properly  
✔ Screenshots displayed correctly  
✔ Clean & professional  

This is **exactly what evaluators want** 💯

---

## 🚀 Next (Optional Help)
I can:
- Review **Task 2 / Task 3 README**
- Fix **any Markdown file**
- Write **main repository README**
- Help with **LinkedIn post & video script**

```
---

## 📄 License

This project is created for educational and internship evaluation purposes only.
